--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# RAILS - SETUP APP

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## 1. Generate the App

__Set up environment with specified ruby and rails versions:__

To check Ruby and rails version:
   
      $ ruby -v
      $ rails -v
   
__To install Ruby and Rails specific version and create app:__

      $ gem uninstall rails
      $ gem uninstall railties
      $ gem install rails -v 4.1.0
      $ rails _4.1.0_ new MySite  generate web app dir and files
   
Specifying the version number it only needed if you have more than one installed.
If you want mySQL locally, run: `$ rails new MySite -d mysql`
      
__To install latest Ruby and Rails and create app__

      $ gem install rails
      $ rails new MySite  generate web app dir and files
      
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## 2. Install Gem Add-Ons
   
Rails uses add-ons called Gems which you can specify in the file called Gemfile. 
This file already has recommended gems listed in it, ready to install with the 
following command:

      $ cd <project/root/directory/>
      $ bundle update do this step only if the next one does not work alone
      $ bundle install --without production		 has remembered option
   
This remembered option means the next time you run `bundle install` it will retain.
Beware the running things like `bundle update` `bundle install`and
`bundle exec` will work without `bundle` but `bundle` insures that you run the
version used by your app project! Therefore it's much safer to prepend with it. 
   
If you want to verify what has been installed you can run

      $ gem list rails 	 to view only the rails gems
      $ gem list 			 to list all gems
      
__Customize Gemfile__
   
Take a look at the Gemfile you just installed from. 

If you use a Gemfile that was not generated by your install it must show the
same rails version as the one you have intalled on your system. You can have
multiple versions intalled and the Gemfile with dictate which version your app
will use.

Typically version numbers in Gemfiles are given as ranges but for learning it's good
to have exact version numbers. This means removing all ~and >= from this file.

here is the complete Gemfile as used in a project running Rails 4.1.0:

      source 'https://rubygems.org'
      
      
      gem 'rails', '4.1.0'  Bundle edge Rails instead: gem 'rails', github: 'rails/rails'
      gem 'sqlite3', group: [:development, :test] 		 Use sqlite3 as db for Active Record
      
       Use postgresql as the database for production
      group :production do
      gem 'pg'
      gem 'rails_12factor'
      end
      
       See https://github.com/sstephenson/execjs#readme for more supported runtimes
       gem 'therubyracer',platforms: :ruby 
      
       Turbolinks makes following links in your web application faster. Read more: https://github.com/rails/turbolinks
       gem 'turbolinks'
      
      gem 'sass-rails', '4.0.3'				 Use SCSS for stylesheets
      gem 'bootstrap-sass', '3.3.1'			 Use bootstrap library for styles
      gem 'font-awesome-sass', '4.2.0'		 Use font awesome library for icons
      
      gem 'uglifier', '1.3.0'					 Compressor for JavaScript assets
      gem 'coffee-rails', '4.0.0' 			 Use .js.coffee assets and views
      gem 'jquery-rails'						 Use jquery as JavaScript library
      gem 'jbuilder', '2.0'					 Build JSON APIs with ease
      gem 'sdoc', '0.4.0', group: :doc		 bundle exec rake doc:rails generates the API under doc/api.
      gem 'spring', group: :development	 speeds up dev by keeping app running in the bg. 
      
      gem 'devise', '3.4.1'					 Use devise for user auth
       gem 'bcrypt', '3.1.7'					 Use ActiveModel has_secure_password
      
      gem 'stripe', '1.16.1'					 Use stripe for handling payments
      gem 'figaro', '1.0.0'					 Use figaro to hide secret keys
      
      gem 'paperclip', '4.2.1'				 Use paperclip for image uploads
       gem 'aws-sdk-v1'  For Amazon's S3 service If using paperclip <= v4.3.1
      
      gem 'redcarpet', '~2.1.1' 			 for markdown support
      gem 'coderay', '~1.0.7'				 for markdown support
      
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## 3. Font Awesome Setup

Add this to Gemfile:

       add font awesome library for icons
      gem 'font-awesome-sass'
      
Run this terminal command which will fetch the gem online and install it:

      $ bundle install
      
Add this to app/assets/stylesheets/application.css.scss:

      @import "font-awesome-sprockets";
      @import "font-awesome";
   
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## 4. Bootstrap Setup

Go to our Gemfile and add this anywhere logical and save the file:

       adding bootstrap's gem
      gem 'bootstrap-sass'
   
Run this terminal command which will fetch the gem online and install it:

      $ bundle install 
   
Look at the docs for bootstrap-sass on github. Find and rename this file using
git's command rather than the normal one which results in a delete operation:

      $ cd app/assets/stylesheets 
      $ git mv application.css application.css.scss
   
Renaming this file lets the preprocessor know we will add SASS syntax to CSS
Now we will add these two lines to the bottom and hit save:

      @import "bootstrap-sprockets";
      @import "bootstrap";

If you read the bootstrap docs you will see that you need a javascript plugin.
Go to the docs on github.com/twbs/bootstrap-sass and you will see
Require Bootstrap JS in app/assets/javascripts/application.js 

Find that file and add below the line for jQuery:

      //= require bootstrap-sprockets

Without this, the site will adapt to some degree but not completely. For example,
if you have a navigation bar with a number of option they will compress into a menu
but the menu will not be functional without this inclusion.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## 5. Launch Site Locally

Now let's launch the site privately:

      $ rails server -p 808						 Do this for local machines
      $ bundle exec rails server -p $PORT -b $IP 	 Do this for cloud9
   
You can grab the URL and open it anywhere else. When you are done coding you may
want to take it down by being in the terminal and hitting ctrl-c
If you ever need to know your IP address and/or your port you can...

      $ echo $IP
      $ echo $PORT
      
This shows a spash screen since we haven't created any pages yet. This works 
fine to test locally but if we tried to deploy to the live web we would not get 
this spash screen so we wouldn't be able to tell if the app was working or not. 

Lets temporarily add some content so we'll be able to deploy to the live web 
using Heroku. After we set up Heroku and launch the site we can delete this added 
content. Here is how to create a temporary home page and keep in mind this is 
not a normal way we would ever add content!

1. In the file app/controllers/application_controller.rb you will find a class 
   called ApplicationController. Add to it this method:

   def hello
       render text: "hello, world!"
   end
   
   This method is also called an "action" and it usually corresponds to a page 
   on your site. Now lets tell the router to fetch it.
   
2. In config/routes.rb add the following as the second line:
   
      root 'application#hello'
   
3. Now launch the page locally again with one of these commands :
   
      $ rails server -p 808						 Do this for local machines
      $ bundle exec rails server -p $PORT -b $IP 	 Do this for cloud9

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# RAILS - SETUP GIT

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## 1. Setup Git Source Control

First make a Github or Bitbucket account and VERIFY YOUR EMAIL. 

Make sure your email address below is the same as you used with your Github or Bitbucket 
account. I don't think it matters if usernames match. When doing anything with git
always make sure you are at the project root. Do the following only once per computer: 

      $ cd <project/root/directory/ 
      $ git config --global user.name "Your Name"
      $ git config --global user.email "your@email.com"
      $ git config --global push.default matching
      $ cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub			 copy entire key.
                              
Go to Github and click on settings for your profile. Click SSH keys and add key from above.
Now for the things done per-project... 						

Make a repository on Github. You'll probably want it to have the same name as your app.
Choose not to make a README.md. After you submit, on the next screen click SSH and copy.
Before we connect our local file to Github we need to have git setup locally:

      $ cd <project/root/directory/
      $ git init		 this generates the git control files and folders
      
Rails uses .rdoc for readme files which is not what Github uses. Change the 
extension:

   $ git mv README.rdoc README.md
      
Before we start tracking our code we want to ignore certain files that have 
sensitive data, expecially if we have a public repo on Github. Even if the files 
don't yet exist, adding the following to the hidden file .gitignore will prevent 
them from ever being uploaded. 

See https://help.github.com/articles/ignoring-files for more about ignoring files.

       TODO Comment out if OK with secrets being uploaded to the repo
      config/initializers/secret_token.rb
      config/secrets.yml

       Ignore application configuration
      /config/application.yml

If you find yourself ignoring temporary files generated by your text editor
or operating system, you probably want to add a global ignore instead:

      $ git config --global core.excludesfile '~/.gitignore_global'
      
Now lets add and commit the project locally.
   
      $ git add -A get ready to add added files and delete deleted ones 
      $ git status	 to view everything that was added
      $ git commit -m "Initial commit"	 This commits everything locally
      
Next you get set the origin to be the version online. This mean two things: we connect
the local with online and we declare the online to be the "origin." The address
we type in below is the copied SSH not HTML. This means we don't have to keep logging on. 

      ## always in project root directory!!
      $ git remote add origin git@github.com:yourusername/MySite.git  copied from SSH
      $ git remote					 to verify. you should see origin
      $ git push origin master	 This uploads our prior commits to the online repo
      
Deleted files are not updated with `git add .` so if you want to update any 
deleted files you should use git to remove them or run `git add -A`
      
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## 2. Git Routine Suggestions
      
**Your daily workflow routine**
   
To preview site on c9.io...

      $ bundle exec rails server-p $PORT -b $IP  ctrl-c to take down preview 
   
Keep server running. Open new terminal tab...

      ## in project root directory:
      $ git status  If you see changes that you want to commit
      $ git add -A  add all and update deleted files (if needed)
      $ git status  check if it was added
      $ git commit -m "YOUR MSG"  local commit
      $ git push origin <branch   push to github
      
Consider the master branch to be the one that is completed and deployed.
It should always mirror what is currently deployed to the live web. 

There is only one moment where it might now. Heroku (which we will use for 
deployment) can only be updated from the master branch. Just before you deploy 
you will have your updates on another "working branch" and not the master. Just 
before you deploy you will merge those update to the master branch and then deploy
from there. 

I recommend at least two other branches in addition to the master branch:

1. update - this is the candidate for the next update 
2. revert - this is a backup of the master as a mirror of previous deployment 

Here is how you create those:

      $ git checkout -b update  copies current (master) branch to a new one, locally
      $ git push origin update  uploads the new branch to Github (or whatever)
      $ git checkout -b revert  copies current (update) branch to a new one, locally
      $ git push origin revert  uploads the new branch to Github (or whatever)
      
You should not work off of the master branch. If you start to and haven't ran 
any commands to save it you are in luck. You can switch to another branch and save 
the changes there. Here is how you would save them to the update branch:

      $ git checkout update
      $ git add -A add the changes to update branch
      $ git commit -m "YOUR MSG" local commit
      $ git push origin update upload 
   
If, instead, you made change that you just want to discard you can run this:

      $ git checkout --force or -f


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# RAILS - SETUP HEROKU

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## 1. Gemfile Update

Heroku is well known in the Ruby community. It's the most popular Rails host.
They have very elegant hosting and deployment setup that we would all benefit in
emulating even if we aren't hosting on Heroku. We push our app to Heroku and it
provides it with a domain name for deployment.

1. These modifications were made to Gemfile for Heroku compatibility:

      gem 'sqlite3', group: [:development, :test]
      
       Use postgresql as the database for production
      group :production do
         gem 'pg'
         gem 'rails_12factor'
      end

2. If you just added this, you need to run bundle install
      
      ## in project root directory:
      $ bundle install 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## 2. Heroku Account

1. Make and account at heroku.com with the same email address you used with github. 
2. Go to your email to complete the account creation. 
3. Make sure email is verified with github
4. Go back to cloud9 terminal:

      ## in project root directory:
      $ heroku login
      $ YOUREMAIL@gmail.com
      $ ******** (one cap, one non alpha-num)
      $ heroku keys:add
      $ Y
      $ heroku create
      
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## 3. Deploy to Heroku

Make sure you are on the master branch and all (stable) changes are merged in. 

      $ git push heroku master
      
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## 4. Troubleshooting Heroku

This grabs the latest copy from Git and sends it to the URL
If you go to your URL later and it's not there, that's okay, heroku sleeps it.
If you want to customize your domain name instead of using the one generated by
heroku, google domain keroku. If you want to view your domains or run console:

      $ heroku domains
      $ heroku run console
      
If you have trouble depolying you may want to check out `$ heroku logs` You 
may see that some database doesn't exist on the heroku version and in this case 
you can create it.Run this command whenever you alter your database:

      $ heroku run rake db:migrate
      
You can use the following command to reset the entire database. The command 
will simply drop and create the database. Afterward, run db:migrate. 

      $ heroku pg:reset DATABASE
      
Another way is to reset the db locally and then push it to Heroku:

      $ rake db:reset
      $ heroku db:push
      
This can be used to restart the app on Heroku if you are in the root directory 
of your rails application

      $ heroku restart

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## 5. Public Repos and Heroku

Rails uses keys to authorize deployment which should not be shared publicly. 
There is a filed called .gitignore found at the project root which lists files 
not to be tracked by git. The problem we run into is that Heroku has you use git 
to send up the code for deployment and that code will not include the key. There 
are a few solution to this such as the figaro and heroku_secrets gems. 

I find there is need for figaro, heroku_secrets or any other gem. Secrets can be 
organized into two files: config/intializers/secret_token.rb sets the 
secret_key_base environmental variable used in production. This file is created 
manually and should be added to gitignore. The second file is config/secrets.yml 
This file is also created manually and is NOT added to gitignore. It will set 
secret_key_base used in production using the environmental variable created in 
secret_token.rb as well as setting secret_key_base for development and testing 
using strings. 

I also found no need to set the variables using Heroku CLI's heroku config:set 
command. Heroku will get and store the key without storing it to a file in the 
actual Rails app. 

In summary you will have three keys: development, test and production. You can 
generate these yourself with the command `rake secret`

__Added to .gitignore__

      config/initializers/secret_token.rb

__`example config/initializers/secret_token.rb:`__

      TheAppName::Application.config.secret_key_base = '' 

Note that the app name will always begin with a capital letter even if you didn't 
give it one when you generated it with `rails new`. The app's name is declared as 
a module in `config/application.rb`. Insert a key between '' that you generate 
with `rake secret`.

__`example config/secrets.yml:`__

Insert a keys between '' that you generated with `rake secret`. SECRET_KEY_BASE 
will take the value set in the gitignored secret_token.rb file. 

      development:
      secret_key_base: ''
       
      test:
      secret_key_base: ''
       
      production:
      secret_key_base: <%= ENV["SECRET_KEY_BASE"] %>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## 6. Renaming Heroku Apps

__From the Heroku Website__ 

      $ heroku apps:rename newname
       Renaming oldname to newname... done
       http://newname.herokuapp.com/ | git@herokuapp.com:newname.git
       Git remote heroku updated

Renaming an app will cause it to immediately become available at the new 
subdomain (newname.herokuapp.com) and unavailable at the old name 
(oldname.herokuapp.com). If you have custom domains configured that use these 
subdomains, for example a CNAME record set up that references 
oldname.herokuapp.com, then it will also need to be updated.

If you are using the CLI to rename an app from inside the Git checkout 
directory, your remote will be updated automatically. If you rename from the 
website or have other checkouts, such as those belonging to other developers, 
these will need to be updated manually:

      $ git remote rm heroku
      $ heroku git:remote -a newname

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# RAILS - GOOGLE DOMAINS

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## 1. Google Domains with Heroku

Instead of having your domain be a subdomain of herokuapp.com you can purchase 
your own domain and have it point to the Heroku app. One solution is to purchase 
one from google domains which is what will be explored here. In this example we 
have the app name MySite and the Heroku domain mysite.herokuapp.com. 

1. Sign up for Google Domains and purchase 'mysite.com'
2. Go to the DNS page
3. Under "Synthetic records" type "www" and click add.
4. Under "Custom resource records" add "www CNAME 1h mysite.herokuapp.com."

Now go over to your Heroku dashboard

1. Click on your app then go to the settings tab
2. Under "Domains" click "Add domain" type "mysite.com" (NO WWW) and submit
3. Click "Add domain" again and type your google domain WITH www and submit

Now you're DONE! It may take a few hour to take effect. Google says it could 
take 48 hours but for me it's usually in effect in a few minutes. Sometimes I'll 
enter "1m" instead of "1h" but I'm not certain if that makes any difference

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## 2. Google Subdomains with Heroku

You may choose to use the single Google domain name for many different apps. 
One solution is to have a main app at your Google domain and then create other 
Heroku apps which all are subdomains of your main app. We can arrange this so 
none of the URLs show "herokuapp" quite nicely.

Lets say we have the following rails apps with the corresponding heroku domains:

* mysite -mysite.herokuapp.com
* forum-forum.herokuapp.com
* blog -blog.herokuapp.com

If our Google domain is, for example, "http://www.mysite.com" we can create these:

* http://www.mysite.com
* http://forum.mysite.com
* http://blog.mysite.com

To this we go to "Custom resource records" at Google Domains and add these:

1. forum CNAME 1h mysite.herokuapp.com.
2. blogCNAME 1h mysite.herokuapp.com.

Now we need to tell Heroku about this. Go to the same place on the Heroku site, 
we will be using "Add domain" twice more:

1. add "forum.mysite.com"
2. add "blog.mysite.com"


