--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## PAYMENTS WITH STRIPE

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
### 0. Background Info	

Stripe makes it so the web developer doesn't see the actual CC info. This is
great because we don't have to handle security. We will write some JS code that
prevents those fields from sending to our servers. The JS code will reach into
the form and grap those 4 fields and send then to stripe's server. They will then
send back a "Card Token" which is a string. We will then inject this back into
our signup form as a hidden field.

What we will do server-side is write ruby that checks if the user is basic or pro.
If the user is basic, devise gem just adds user to our database. If user is pro,
devise saves user to database, but we also make another call to Stripe's servers
this time we're telling Stripe to go ahead and create a customer and charge their
card.

The inspiration for this approach is comming from a combination of resources.
The stripe documentation itself is good, especially the tut by Larry Ullman. 

.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
### 1. Install Stripe and Figaro	
 
		
Sign up for stripe. Go to the dashboard and make sure you're in test mode.
In the stripe dashboard, click on plans -create your first plan.

	ID    1           ID    2
	Name  Basic       Name  Pro
	Amount 0.0        Amount 10.0  
	
Now add these to your Gemfile

	# use figaro to hide secret keys
	gem 'figaro'
	
And because need to hide sensitive information from stripe:

	# use stripe for handling payments
	gem 'stripe'
	
Also, comment out this because it might conflict

	# gem 'turbolinks'
	
Install:

	$ bundle install
	$ bundle exec figaro install

Now disable turbolinks from our app. In app/views/layouts/application.html.erb,
remove the following:

	, 'data-turbolinks-track' => true
	, 'data-turbolinks-track' => true

in app/assets/javascripts/application.js remove this line: 

	//= require turbolinks
		
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
### 2. Communicating With Stripe Servers

create config/initializers/stripe.rb and add:

	Stripe.api_key = ENV["stripe_api_key"]
	STRIPE_PUBLIC_KEY = ENV["stripe_publishable_key"]

In config/application.yml (Put your keys in this file)
	
	stripe_api_key: sk_test_j4pitqOhsguy2ycyS29yasdf
	stripe_publishable_key: pk_test_opJrdVYavI0jqtE9pjKLasdf
	#
	production:
	  stripe_api_key: sk_test_j4pitqOhsguy2ycyS29yasdf
	  stripe_publishable_key: pk_test_opJrdVYavI0jqtE9pjKLasdf
	
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
### 3. Adding Hidden Fields

in `_basic_form.html.erb` add this below the second line:

	<%= hidden_field_tag 'plan', params[:plan] %>

If you go to the page and inspect it you will see there is an `<input id="plan"
type="hidden" value="1">` that you can't see. It is taking the query string
parameter we send from the button on the home screen in home.html.erb, which uses
variables defined in pages_controller.

Lets do the same for `_pro_form.html.erb`, under the second line:

	<%= hidden_field_tag 'plan', params[:plan] %>

Right now, the HTML generated by both the Basic and Pro buttons have the same id.
If you inspect it you'll see `id="new_user"` In our javascript that will we write
we need to know the difference. 

in `_basic_form.html.erb` change the first line to this:

	<%= form_for(resource, as: resource_name, url: registration_path(resource_name), html: {id: 'basic_form'}) do |f| %>

We added, html: {id: 'basic_form'}
In the `_pro_form.html.erb` modify the body of the div containing the button to:

	<%= f.submit "Sign up", class: 'btn btn-success', id: 'form-submit-btn' %>

We added , id: 'form-submit-btn'
	
	$ git add .
	$ git commit -m "Updated forms for stripe"
	$ git push origin stripe_integration

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
### 4. Stripe Javascript

Now when submit is hidden, stripe will be sent a hidden field to tell them if it's
basic or pro. Right now when a user hits sumbit for pro, it doesn't send anything
back to our server. Things are sort of on hold pending a reply from stripe.
Our javascript sends the CC info to stripe and we await the reply in the form of
a Card Token which will inject as a hidden field.

We need to import a library into layouts/application.html.erb as the second and
line fourth lines below the `</title> `

	<title>Dev Match</title>
	<%= stylesheet_link_tag 'application', media: 'all' %>
	<%= javascript_include_tag "https://js.stripe.com/v2/", type: 'text/javascript' %>
	<%= javascript_include_tag 'application' %>
	<%= tag :meta, :name => "stripe-key", :content => STRIPE_PUBLIC_KEY %>
	<%= csrf_meta_tags %>

Now create this file app/assets/javascripts/users.js

	$(document).ready(function() {
	Stripe.setPublishableKey($('meta[name="stripe-key"]').attr('content'));
	  // Watch for a form submission:
	  $("#form-submit-btn").click(function(event) {
		event.preventDefault();
		$('input[type=submit]').prop('disabled', true);
		var error = false;
		var ccNum = $('#card_number').val(),
			cvcNum = $('#card_code').val(),
			expMonth = $('#card_month').val(),
			expYear = $('#card_year').val();
		if (!error) {
		  // Get the Stripe token:
		  Stripe.createToken({
			number: ccNum,
			cvc: cvcNum,
			exp_month: expMonth,
			exp_year: expYear
		  }, stripeResponseHandler);
		}
		return false;
	  }); // form submission
	  function stripeResponseHandler(status, response) {
		// Get a reference to the form:
		var f = $("#new_user");
		// Get the token from the response:
		var token = response.id;
		// Add the token to the form:
		f.append('<input type="hidden" name="user[stripe_card_token]" value="' + token + '" />');
		// Submit the form:
		f.get(0).submit(); 
	  }
	});


Now we need to create the user accounts on our end.

Create a new folder app/contollers/users and inside it, registrations_controller.rb
Here we will override the default devise stuff. What would happen by default is
devise would create a new user but we need to do a little bit more than that.

	class Users::RegistrationsController < Devise::RegistrationsController
	def create
		super do |resource|
		  if params[:plan]
			resource.plan_id = params[:plan]
			if resource.plan_id == 2
			  resource.save_with_payment
			else
			  resource.save
			end
		  end
		end
	  end
	end

We are overriding the create method of the RegistrationsController class given to
us by Devise. Now we to make `save_with_payment` in the model file

`models/user.rb` add this:

  def save_with_payment
	if valid?
	  customer = Stripe::Customer.create(description: email, plan: plan_id, card: stripe_card_token)
	  self.stripe_customer_token = customer.id
	  save!
	end
  end

Also, before this definition, add this:

	attr_accessor :stripe_card_token

Now we need to create a column in the database for `stripe_customer_token`.

	$ bundle exec rails generate migration AddStripeCustomerTokenToUsers

Now in the new db/migrate/xyz_add_stripe_customer_token_to_users.rb

	class AddStripeCustomerTokenToUsers < ActiveRecord::Migration
	  def change
	    add_column :users, :stripe_customer_token, :string
	  end
	end

Then run:

	$ bundle exec rake db:migrate

Now whenever we modify Devise like this we need to do the following whitelising
of parameters. in app/controllers/application_controller.rb

	before_filter :configure_permitted_parameters, if: :devise_controller?
	
	protected
	def configure_permitted_parameters
	  devise_parameter_sanitizer.for(:sign_up) { |u| u.permit(:name, :stripe_card_token, :email, :password, :password_confirmation) }
	end

Now we need to tell our application to use this new registrations_controller.
in the router, change the devise_for line to:

	devise_for :users, controllers: { registrations: 'users/registrations' }

Lets just do some minor improvements. Right now when someone signs up they get
a crappy flash notice generated by Devise.

add this to app/assets/stylesheets/custom.css.scss

	.alert-notice {
	  color: #8a6d3b;
	  background-color: #fcf8e3;
	  border-color: #faebcc;
	}

next lets add some subtle improvements to our sign up forms. Right now if the
user clicks on pro the url will have plan=2 at the end and plan=1 for basic.
What happens if the user types plan=3 in the url bar? They will get basic.
We don't want this to be possible.
look at controllers/users/registrations_controller.rb
What we need to add is what rails calls a "before filter"


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
### 5. Rails Before Filter

If you go to the filters section of the guides.rubyonrails.org you find before filters.
In controllers/users/registrations_controller.rb add this as the first line of class:

	before_filter :select_plan, only: :new

Then as the last thing in the class add this:

	private
	def select_plan
	  unless params[:plan] && (params[:plan] == '1' || params[:plan] == '2')
		flash[:notice] = "Please select a membership plan to sign up."
		redirect_to root_url
	  end
	end

	$ git add .
	$ git commit -m "Added notice and styles"
	$ git push origin stripe_integration

----Lets push to heroku ---- redo this! -----

	$ git status
	$ git checkout development
	$ git merge stripe_integration
	$ git push origin development
	$ git checkout master
	$ git merge development
	$ git push origin master
	$ git push heroku master
	$ heroku run rake db:migrate
	$ heroku run rails console
	> Plan.create(name: 'basic', price: 0)
	> Plan.create(name: 'pro', price: 10)
	> exit
	$ heroku domains
		
		
		
	####console commands (Add your keys here after the '=')
	$ heroku config:set stripe_api_key=sk_test_xyz...
	$ heroku config:set stripe_publishable_key=pk_test_xyz...


test with CC# 4242424242424242, any cvv and any exp date

